

Come and join our lunchtime yoga class with experienced yoga teacher Divya Bridge!

When? Every Tuesday at 1.30 p.m.

Where? Meeting Room 7

How much? £10 for four 30-minute classes.

What to bring? Comfortable clothes. Divya will provide the yoga mats.

How to join? Write to Sam at Sam.Holden@example.com

 

We can only take a maximum of 20 in the room, so book now!



    Doors close 5 minutes before the exam begins.
    Show your student ID card to examiner when you enter the room.
    No phones, no books.


    Have your ID card ready.
    Listen to the instructions.
    Arrive 10 minutes before exam.


    Mobile phones switched off and put away.
    ID card visible on the desk.
    No talking. 
    No food or drinks in exam room.


    Follow the examiner's instructions.
    If you have a question, raise your hand.
    No mobile phones, books or bags in the exam.
    Please use a blue or black pen.

You must attend 80 per cent of classes to pass the course.
I know John. He lives in my dorm at university.
Norman Brown was in the English faculty for twenty years.
The teaching assistant has the exams for you at the end of class.
Tuition fees are very high this year.
They met when they were undergraduates at Cambridge University.

Beautiful two-bedroom city flat five minutes' walk from the cathedral. Fully equipped kitchen, living room with a large sofa and chairs, big TV and balcony. The balcony has space for four people to sit and gets the sun in the mornings, and the flat is light and warm. It has Wi-Fi and fast internet. The upstairs bedroom sleeps four people, with two double beds; the downstairs bedroom sleeps two in single beds. The flat is perfect for families and is near shops, bars and restaurants.

Four-bedroom farmhouse in the countryside. All of the four double bedrooms are en suite with luxury shower and bath. Farm kitchen with barbecue, tables and chairs outside. Great for groups of friends. The supermarket is half an hour by car and you can take a train from the village into the city. Escape from normal life for a few days as we have … NO INTERNET and you can only use mobile phones at the bottom of the garden!

Do you like cars? Are you friendly and do you like chatting with people? Would you like to make £200 a day selling cars? If you answered yes to the above questions, we’d like you to be on our team!
Motor Ground is a car sales company that buys and sells used cars.

We're looking for a marketing manager to manage an international team. Ability to speak English necessary. Salary is £50,000 a year.
Groovy is a German clothes company that has shops in countries across Europe.

French teacher wanted to teach children between the ages of 3 and 12. Applicants must have teaching experience. £15 per hour.
LinguaFun is a language school that offers modern language classes to students of all ages.

Nurse needed in private hospital. Must be registered to work in the UK. £25,000 per year.
Private hospital with 50 years' experience providing high-quality health care.



Mario called. He wants you to call back before 7 p.m.

Sales meeting this afternoon at 12 noon.

Pens ready for collection between 10 a.m. and 3 p.m.

Jackie is leaving the office at 4 p.m. today. Please remember to lock the doors. The keys are in your drawer.
I declare that the information provided is correct.
Your card will be issued within 30 days and sent to the address provided.


Would you like to meet for a coffee?
I'm working now, but I finish work at five.
That's difficult for me. Can we meet 30 minutes later?
The Blue Café is nice. I love the tea there.
It's closed on Mondays. Let's go to Rocket Boy.
It's next to the school. See you there?

