How are you? It was so nice to meet you last week in Sydney at the sales meeting. How was the rest of your trip? Did you see any kangaroos? I hope you got home to Mexico City OK.

Anyway, I have the documents about the new Berlin offices. We're going to be open in three months. I moved here from London just last week. They are very nice offices, and the location is perfect. There are lots of restaurants, cafés and banks in the area. There's also public transport; we are next to an U-Bahn (that is the name for the metro here). Maybe you can come and see them one day? I would love to show you Berlin, especially in the winter. You said you have never seen snow – you will see lots here!

Here's a photo of you and me at the restaurant in Sydney. That was a very fun night! Remember the singing Englishman? Crazy! Please send me any other photos you have of that night. Good memories.

Please give me your email address and I will send you the documents.

Bye for now.


What can I take on the plane as hand luggage?

Please note that passengers can only take ONE suitcase onto the plane. It must be no bigger than 55cm x 22cm x 35cm and weigh no more than 10kg.

You can also take one small laptop bag or handbag that can fit under the seat in front of you. If you have two bags, their total weight cannot be more than 10kg. If your bag is too big or too heavy, you will not be allowed to take it onto the plane. Staff will put it in the hold for you and you will have to pay extra.

Please make sure mobile phones and other devices are fully-charged so security staff can check them.

Liquids in bottles bigger than 100ml are allowed on board if you buy them in the airport shops after you've passed security. 

We hope you enjoy your flight!

Hi Samia,

Just a quick email to say that sounds like a great idea. Saturday is better for me because I'm meeting my parents on Sunday. So if that's still good for you, why don't you come here? Then you can see the new flat and all the work we've done on the kitchen since we moved in. We can eat at home and then go for a walk in the afternoon. It's going to be so good to catch up finally. I want to hear all about your new job!

Our address is 52 Charles Road, but it's a bit difficult to find because the house numbers are really strange here. If you turn left at the post office and keep going past the big white house on Charles Road, there's a small side street behind it with the houses 50–56 in. Don't ask me why the side street doesn't have a different name! But call me if you get lost and I'll come and get you.

Let me know if there's anything you do/don't like to eat. Really looking forward to seeing you!

See you soon!

Well done, Javier, on all your hard work this term. You are always active in speaking activities, and this is great. I always enjoy reading your writing too; you have very good ideas. You can see from your marks that reading is not a problem for you.

Sometimes you still make small grammar mistakes, and I think you can improve your vocabulary. I recommend you review many of the language points we studied this term. There is extra language practice in your online workbook.

The area you need to work on the most is listening. I know this is difficult for you. I recommend more practice at home. Listen to English TV shows, podcasts and radio as much as possible. I can give you a list of things to listen to.

I've enjoyed working with you. Have a nice holiday, and good luck for next term!

In 1885, Hermann Ebbinghaus studied his own memory. He wanted to know how quickly he forgot new information. He gave himself tests after different periods of time to see how much he forgot each time. The result is called The Forgetting Curve.

Time is not the only thing that makes us forget something. If we are tired or under stress, we forget faster. If the information was difficult to understand we will forget it faster too. But things that are very important or meaningful to us are easier to remember.

Dear Grace,

Thank you for your application for the position of sales manager.

We would like to invite you for an interview at 10 a.m. on Monday 21 September at our offices at The Shard, 32 London Bridge Street, London.

You will meet with our head of sales, Susan Park, and the interview will last for about 45 minutes. During this time, you will have the opportunity to find out more about the position and learn more about our company.

Please bring your CV and references to the interview. You will also need to show a form of ID at reception to receive a visitor's pass. Please ask for me as soon as you arrive.

If you have any questions or if you wish to reschedule, please call me on 555-1234 or email me by 12 September.

I look forward to meeting you.

Whether you are looking for a conference venue or a place to have your meetings and your training days, the International Centre is the perfect modern space for your event.

Offering free Wi-Fi, secure parking and all-day refreshments, the International Centre has 120 meeting rooms and a theatre for up to 1,000 people.

Conveniently located in the city centre, the International Centre is close to the shops and only a ten-minute walk to the train station.

The Grand West is a country house surrounded by rolling hills and beautiful scenery, only a 30-minute drive from the airport.

With 76 hotel rooms, 12 meeting rooms and a conference room that takes up to 200 people, the Grand West offers free Wi-Fi and a whiteboard in every room.

You can also make use of the gardens of the Grand West for team-building events and outdoor activities. Our indoor swimming pool, gym and 18-hole golf course will ensure that your event is relaxing and enjoyable for everyone.

Learn English in one of our three schools for the best experience at the lowest prices. Choose from London, Oxford or Cambridge. Practise your English, make friends and see England!

One-to-one classes and groups in central London. Our teachers are all qualified and experienced for a high-quality English course.

I am an architect with 20 years' experience of designing and developing spaces. I am a partner in the award-winning STG Architects Ltd, which is famous for its work on the Galroy Building in London. I enjoy working with people from all over the world and have international experience of working in Italy, Greece, Thailand, Australia and Brazil. I have a Master of Science from Sheffield University and a BA in Architecture from Hull University. I also speak Italian and Thai. When I am not working, I spend my time hiking, skiing and diving.

I am an experienced sales manager with 12 years' experience of developing customer service teams. I am skilled in negotiation, team motivation and building successful sales teams. After ten years of working in sales and customer service at Halo Bank, I am now the sales office manager of a team of 120 at Southern General Plastics Ltd. I have an MBA from Stanford University and a degree in Business Studies from Cornell University. I am creative and hardworking, and enjoy working with others.



Many studies about language learning ask the question: What makes a good language learner? There are some things that good language learners do and some things they don't do. Here are some of the most useful suggestions from studies.

    Don't be afraid of making mistakes. People often get things wrong. Good language learners notice their mistakes and learn from them.
    Do group activities. People use language to communicate with other people. A good language learner always looks for opportunities to talk with other students.
    Make notes during every class. Notes help you to remember new language. Look at your notes when you do your homework.
    Use a dictionary. Good language learners often use dictionaries to check the meaning of words they don't know. They also make their own vocabulary lists.
    Think in the language you're learning outside the classroom. When you're shopping or walking down the street, remember useful words and phrases. Sometimes, when you're at home, say new words to practise your pronunciation.
    Do extra practice. Test and improve your language, reading and listening skills with self-study material. You can find a lot of this online.
    Imagine yourself speaking in the language. Many good language learners can see and hear themselves speaking in the language. This helps their motivation.
    Enjoy the process. Good language learners have fun with the language. Watch a TV series or film, listen to songs, play video games or read a book. It's never too late to become a good language learner.









